11:37:07 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone (in Waiting Room) : Hi there, we're looking to start in about 25 minutes, and the first hour is for helping with installations and software troubles. The official proceedings begin in 1hr and 25 minutes.
11:42:56 From  Brian Jones (OTN)  to  Everyone (in Waiting Room) : https://obis.org/maptool/
11:43:23 From  Brian Jones (OTN)  to  Everyone : https://obis.org/maptool/https://www.pgc.umn.edu/apps/convert/
12:03:27 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : Official start to day 1 will be in 1hr. if you're working through any installation instructions such as the ones at https://obis.org/manual/intror/#installation and want a hand, we can do that in breakout rooms, etc. Just let us know!
12:23:02 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : https://github.com/ocean-tracking-network/obis-workshop
12:23:54 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : Official start to day 1 will be in 1hr. if you're working through any installation instructions such as the ones at https://obis.org/manual/intror/#installation and want a hand, we can do that in breakout rooms, etc. Just let us know!
12:25:46 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : start is on the hour, not in one hour, my mistake
12:30:13 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : https://github.com/ocean-tracking-network/obis-workshop <- materials for this week's workshop. I'll have a slide early on about downloading it.
12:33:56 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : We'll get started in about 30 minutes with the actual instruction, if anyone is following the R/RStudio instructions at https://obis.org/manual/intror/#installation and needs a bit of help, just let us know in the chat or via voice and we'll get you paired up.
12:42:26 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : 20 minutes or so to go before we get started. This hour's mainly to help out folks who are attempting installation of R/RStudio and the OBIS R packages via the instructions here: https://obis.org/manual/intror/#installationso if you do need any help with that, just let us know in the chat or via voice.
12:54:56 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : Starting on the hour with the actual content, this time is mainly to help out folks who are attempting installation of R/RStudio and the OBIS R packages via the instructions here: https://obis.org/manual/intror/#installationso if you do need any help with that, just let us know in the chat or via voice.
12:55:29 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : we'll get going in about 5 minutes now, if anyone has been trying out the OBIS R installation instructions here: https://obis.org/manual/intror/#installationwe can help with that either today or tomorrow morning in the hour ahead of the workshop start time
12:56:59 From  Maria Cornthwaite (Pacific Biological Station, Nanaimo BC)  to  Everyone : Was I supposed to be installing things?!
12:57:31 From  Brian Jones (OTN)  to  Everyone : more important for tomorrow's session
12:58:17 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : the OBIS R installation instructions here: https://obis.org/manual/intror/#installationwe can help with that either today or tomorrow morning
12:58:47 From  Maria Cornthwaite (Pacific Biological Station, Nanaimo BC)  to  Everyone : Is R studio mandatory?  I'm fairly proficient in R but have never used (or installed) R studio...
12:59:16 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : Nope, you won't have to use rstudio. We have provided examples in R Markdown but it's not a requirement
13:02:05 From  Caitlin Bate (OTN)  to  Everyone : depending on your version of Zoom the "reactions" might be in the Participants tab, or they might be directly on the bottom bar of Zoom
13:23:06 From  Caitlin Bate (OTN)  to  Everyone : https://github.com/ocean-tracking-network/obis-workshop
13:39:13 From  Caitlin Bate (OTN)  to  Everyone : If you missed it, the course material (including this ppt) is available here, and can be downloaded as a zip file using the big green "Code"  button, or can be cloned if you're familiar with using Git https://github.com/ocean-tracking-network/obis-workshop
13:54:59 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Example of CaRMS tools: http://www.marinespecies.org/carms/checklist.php
14:04:56 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : I get contacted by folks like Kim that ask about records on maps, like Arctic. We then review and will update dataset. Here was an exercise I did to wonder how to do this more easily between WoRMS, OBIS, BOLD and others—see oddities on maps across the portals: 

https://www.researchgate.net/publication/344409991_BN_Leiden_CN_MK_2019pdf
14:08:55 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : https://github.com/ocean-tracking-network/obis-workshop
14:09:44 From  Nick Bekolay  to  Everyone : Great question, Tim
14:11:46 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : the fun and frustrating part
14:18:21 From  HowlandK  to  Everyone : how is eDNA metabarcoding data handled?  is it considered within OBIS?
14:19:39 From  Evan Morien  to  Everyone : I have the same question, good follow up to the last conversation!
14:20:22 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : https://obis.org/2020/09/15/saara/
14:21:32 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : There's a new GitHub for eDNA in OBIS.  Ben Sutherland at DFO in Nanaimo is currently named as a working group participant.
14:21:53 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : I will find the link...
14:22:15 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : break until 10:35, or stay for the chatting!
14:22:57 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : https://github.com/iobis/Project-team-Genetic-Data
14:28:46 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : KIm: you see OBIS occurences in WoRMS map. However, WoRMS provides a tab for LINKS—to BOLD, BHL, and others. There, you will see a BOLD map. Sometimes BOLD datasets are published also on GBIF (BIO of Guelph do so, includes marines species), so see a map there.
14:33:30 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Example between GBIF and BOLD: https://www.gbif.org/species/2219845     http://www.boldsystems.org/index.php/Public_RecordView?processid=NJCGS209-10
14:36:42 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Example between WoRMS and OBIS
http://www.marinespecies.org/aphia.php?p=taxdetails&id=102293#distributions
(OBIS are the green squares)
See here:
https://obis.org/taxon/102293
https://mapper.obis.org/?taxonid=102293#
14:41:29 From  Cailin Burmaster (OTN)  to  Everyone : yes, great to see such a variety of backgrounds here!
14:43:32 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : the only tropical island in Canada
14:43:35 From  Evan Morien  to  Everyone : It might snow in Vancouver. No snow yet this year, so far.
14:43:42 From  Julie Dionne (SLGO)  to  Everyone : Supposed to be -24C here in quebec all the week!!
14:44:15 From  Sheila Atchison (DFO-wpg)  to  Everyone : I love playing the "Who's coldest" game, it was -31 this morning in Winnipeg
14:45:03 From  Caitlin Bate (OTN)  to  Everyone : Halifax got 45 inches of snow overnight - do we win the "winter" competition???
14:45:08 From  Caitlin Bate (OTN)  to  Everyone : 45 CM
14:45:56 From  Evan Morien  to  Everyone : 45in would be A LOT
14:46:00 From  Sheila Atchison (DFO-wpg)  to  Everyone : That's impressive! My toddler would love some of that snow
14:46:03 From  Sheila Atchison (DFO-wpg)  to  Everyone : plz send
15:12:06 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : Would love a visual of how that occurrence (whole catch) relates to individual occurences (eg biodata from individual fishes)
15:12:13 From  Brian Jones (OTN)  to  Everyone : The New Geomapping tool URL: https://obis.org/maptool/
15:12:28 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : OBIS tools including DwC mapping: https://github.com/iobis/obistools
15:12:38 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : was about to post it, this link was a casualty of the iobis -> obis conversion
15:12:56 From  Brian Jones (OTN)  to  Everyone : quiz URL: https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/ocean-tracking-network/obis-workshop/HEAD?filepath=Quizzes%2Fnotebooks%2FDwC%20Quiz.ipynb
15:13:25 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Good comment by Maria.
15:14:43 From  Brian Jones (OTN)  to  Everyone : I haven't checked this tool yet but here's a link to a coordinate converter: https://www.pgc.umn.edu/apps/convert/
15:16:36 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : quiz will do something eventually? just spinning for me
15:17:13 From  Evan Morien  to  Everyone : I had to disable my ad and script blockers in order for it to fully load, might help at your end too
15:17:32 From  Sheila Atchison (DFO-wpg)  to  Everyone : I had to open it in chrome
15:17:35 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : Browser issue!  DFO default is outdated internet explorer.  Works in chrome.
15:23:52 From  Caitlin Bate (OTN)  to  Everyone : big believer that no data is still data! 0 is not NULL :)
15:32:23 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : https://obis.org/dataset/b4ac3d44-b4bf-49ef-a6e9-e2c02adff2fa
15:32:54 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : https://obis.org/dataset/52f99f08-fc90-4684-aea8-a015150968ea
15:37:30 From  Heidi van Vliet  to  Everyone : I got question 12 wrong, but I'm pretty sure my answer was correct
15:38:29 From  Evan Morien  to  Everyone : I also got 12 wrong, I’m a little confused now about which terms are required
15:38:55 From  Caitlin Bate (OTN)  to  Everyone : Which of the Darwin Core terms are mandatory for OBIS? Quiz says this is correct: "D: occurrenceID, scientificName, scientificNameID, decimalLatitude, decimalLongitude, identificationRemarks, locationID, materialSampleID"
15:38:56 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : what is the correct answer for question 4?
15:39:28 From  Caitlin Bate (OTN)  to  Everyone : but i think it should be "A: occurrenceID, scientificName, scientificNameID, eventDate, decimalLatitude, decimalLongitude, basisOfRecord, occurrenceStatus."
15:39:34 From  Heidi van Vliet  to  Everyone : I think 12 should be A?
15:39:34 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : OBIS currently has eight required DwC terms: occurrenceID, eventDate, decimalLongitude, decimalLatitude, scientificName, scientificNameID, occurrenceStatus, basisOfRecord.
15:39:51 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : I had A as well
15:40:22 From  Evan Morien  to  Everyone : Same I thought A. Thank you!
15:44:59 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : What's the answer for 4?
15:45:19 From  Evan Morien  to  Everyone : That one got me too. It’s A and E
15:45:43 From  Evan Morien  to  Everyone : Some others are just slightly off, one has a future date, one has a badly coded month, etc
15:47:22 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : that's right, B is in the future (2023) C has the year in the wrong positionD the month is poorly formed
15:47:28 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : EDMO codes
15:48:24 From  Evan Morien  to  Everyone : So for Institutions in Canada, many have an English and French acronym, if you asked for all records for one, would you get for both? Or would you need to ask for records for each acronym separately.
15:48:57 From  Fran Mowbray  to  Everyone : I must have been on the phone when we covered DAte / Time what were the limitations there?
15:49:00 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : https://www.seadatanet.org/Metadata/EDMO-Organisations
15:49:05 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : https://edmo.seadatanet.org/report/5148
15:49:08 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : Good question Evan...
15:49:40 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : that's a lot of commitment lol
15:50:42 From  Jeff Cullis  to  Everyone : CIOOS profile currently recommends research organization community:https://ror.org/
15:51:30 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : IML: https://edmo.seadatanet.org/report/4160
15:56:33 From  Evan Morien  to  Everyone : It is noon here!
15:58:31 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : its for an hour
15:58:56 From  Cailin Burmaster (OTN)  to  Everyone : Thanks, enjoy lunch!
16:02:40 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Fran had a good question—requirements for Date and time (what is required?). In past, date was NOT required—I think (not sure). Now, may need at least a year. Not sure how it deals without month and day.
16:04:28 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : For French and English, we have tended to use the English version, but again not required. A French institution may prefer to use their better-known name in French. An example from Montréal: https://data.canadensys.net/explorer/occurrences/4e841ada-c6db-4db6-b69c-92132815950c
16:39:57 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : canadensys might be a special case as they're the home of the Canadian GBIF node, and are likely pros at EML.
16:58:09 From  Evan Morien  to  Everyone : I miss the snow in Vancouver but I don’t miss shovelling!
17:00:45 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : trying to bribe my neighbor's kid to rescue me now
17:04:50 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : are the presentations going to be shared?
17:05:03 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : id like to review them
17:05:22 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : https://github.com/ocean-tracking-network/obis-workshop/
17:05:34 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : green button that says Code, download ZIP
17:05:49 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : Also...is there a way to archive this chat?  There's lots of useful stuff here!
17:06:00 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : i will see about it
17:06:01 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : perfect thank you
17:06:40 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : If you just make a summary with the links etc that will suffice, thanks!
17:13:16 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : https://bdj.pensoft.net/articles.php?id=10989
17:13:39 From  Zach Monteith  to  Everyone : You can save the chat; the option is under the ellipsis right above the text entry box
17:15:32 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : yep we'll be sure to grab the chat at the end of the day as well.
17:17:58 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : so if you were submitting data as a csv these would all have to be separated into different worksheets right?
17:18:09 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : within the same file?
17:18:49 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : the unique id
17:19:08 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : So we can use already-existing unique identifiers - we don't have to create concatenated ones like your example?
17:19:19 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : why would they be separate files?
17:19:38 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : Does the R package automate that process to some degree? Separating different data into submittable worksheets?
17:21:44 From  Tim Van Der Stap  to  Everyone : When adding life stage / sex in the EMoF table, would you still also recommend it being added in the occurrence core?
17:22:39 From  Henry Ye  to  Everyone : Tim, I wouldn't add them to the occurrence if it's already in the EMoF, that would cause a duplication 
17:22:43 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : ok then I have the same question as evan :)
17:25:12 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : I think it would be best to train people to look in the MOF!
17:25:47 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : Thanks! Looking forward to testing that when we start working with it
17:26:04 From  Tim Van Der Stap  to  Everyone : I guess that would make more sense as well because you can associate controlled vocab to it through measurementValueID etc
17:26:23 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : yeah you gain a lot of precision using eMoF
17:26:52 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : cat biomass is hilarious
17:27:03 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : Lot of mass
17:31:47 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : tim i'm gonna add that to our 'tough questions' file, and we'll maybe take this to a broader swath of OBIS practicioners.
17:32:41 From  Tim Van Der Stap  to  Everyone : Thanks Jon, appreciate that!
17:33:58 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : the composition of a NERC P01 code: https://github.com/nvs-vocabs/P01/blob/master/The_BODC_P01_PUV_semantic_model_Aug2019.pdf
17:35:08 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : i say 'now that you can request them' i mean 'request them easily in a GitHub Issue'
17:35:11 From  Tim Van Der Stap  to  Everyone : Gwen at BODC is great, very helpful and responsive!
17:38:12 From  Tim Van Der Stap  to  Everyone : How does OBIS deal with 'subsets' within biological data?
17:42:10 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : As someone who has worked on meta analyses before, I usually justify asking people to record more than the required metadata by saying that the more metadata you include, the more accessible the data becomes for other researchers (i.e. the more people will find something useful to extract from your data)
17:50:40 From  Fran Mowbray  to  Everyone : Where does the depth of Niskin bottle deployment fall in the last schematic?
17:51:55 From  Henry Ye  to  Everyone : Emof (event) of the niskin bottle. 
17:55:08 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : would you have a unique measurement id which would then nest to the subsample data
18:00:14 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : you could have everything listed as an occurrence and have another field that specifies if the occurrence is a subsample with additional data or not
18:08:40 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : In addition, the "total catch weight per species" info is a pretty important metric for computing abundance indices, so I think it's key to retain that info entirely - ie you can't split it up into different occurrences.
18:09:33 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : I definitely want to explore the concept of the subsample being a sub-event...
18:09:49 From  Amy Tabata  to  Everyone : it seems like sucha common survey method, it surprises me that this is not more easily incorporated.
18:11:49 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : Individual sample IDs for organisms are important for, for example, MiSeq data
18:11:58 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Agree with Brett—prob. want to retain IDs
18:12:17 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : Or qPCR for that matter
18:12:28 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : +1
18:12:36 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : Yes - we have globally unique specimen IDs for each individual fish measured that links to the age, dna samples, any other info collected from that fish.
18:13:14 From  Brian Jones (OTN)  to  Everyone : Quiz URL: https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/ocean-tracking-network/obis-workshop/HEAD?filepath=Quizzes%2Fnotebooks%2FData%20Formats%20Quiz.ipynb
18:13:22 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : Super happy to be having this discussion here!
18:15:05 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Is your global ID easy to use for all types? Specifically, do you use the DNA sample ID in other public repositories? Or for internal DBs only?
18:17:26 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : Example: In the past when I have submitted sequencing data to ENA/NCBI-SRA I used sampleIDs to link raw sequence files to meta/environmental data collected at the same time as the genetic material
18:17:43 From  Sheila Atchison (DFO-wpg)  to  Everyone : My apologies but I have to go, see you tomorrow :)
18:17:52 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : But those repositories are designed with that format of data in mind. sampleID links everything
18:18:55 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Thanks. I ask because sometimes seems to be a challenge with some DFO fisheries sampling data—deciding/formulating a GUID.
18:18:57 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : And your sequencing data has to be split into individual files corresponding to the samples taken
18:19:30 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : This is the standard for sequencing data archives, at least. I don’t know about other repos that also accept sequencing data along with other data types, like dryad
18:21:36 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : I may have had BOLD in mind—they generate their own identifier. Be nice to match it with the occurrence record in OBIS. http://www.boldsystems.org/index.php/Public_RecordView?processid=DSFIB770-16
18:23:14 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : Still working
18:30:26 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Good q. by Fran
18:30:49 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Perhaps is because it can be daunting to do more—but OBIS enables discovery—even if only occurrences
18:31:32 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : …but how far to go? Is similar for WoRMS—they are expanding out from names into attributes, traits…
18:32:41 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : (and arguably not doing a very good job at it—when compared to their clear value as a name authority)
18:33:37 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : Your point is well taken, Claude. I think there's immense value in deferring authority to a specific data system instead of attempting to become it, so long as a system can be agreed upon.
18:34:01 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : i am going to head for a bite and be back to read the chat at ##:45!
18:36:14 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : Vancouver weather update: we now have big fluffy wet snow coming down. First snow of the year, quite late
18:37:05 From  Maria Cornthwaite (DFO)  to  Everyone : On the other hand...OBIS is trying to promote the "publish once, harvest many times" concept, so the idea is to create a repository where you can store your whole dataset, not just certain pieces. When we are trying to "sell" the concept of OBIS, it's as a convenient repository, to facilitate data sharing for diverse users, so there is value in accommodating all these different types of data.
18:45:46 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : I agree on that—is laudable. And still be a place for datasets that are not as rich, even as we push for more data/metadata (so often we only send a fraction of available info—minimum asked for).
18:46:41 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : (making popcorn, for news of crashing cars in V :)
18:46:55 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : the annual meeting of the summer tires club, huh?
18:47:54 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : One time I skied the TransCanada, was shut down for fluffy (North Van).
18:57:53 From  Brett Johnson  to  Everyone : Depending on how many measurementsTypes you have, you may have an extremely long table
18:58:44 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : the records could also be flattened if that would help with viewing it
18:59:49 From  Tim Van Der Stap  to  Everyone : So, depending on whether the measurements relate to abiotic or biotic data, your measurementID is the same as the occurrenceID or the eventID? measurementID does not have to be populated with a unique string itself?
19:04:37 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : knotty questions. that may be a east coaster-ism
19:07:05 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : relevant to us too!
19:09:50 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : does obis plan on holding similar workshops to this open to the public in the pacific region in the future?
19:10:26 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : that's a good question, what other groups would be interested?
19:10:56 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : I think many people would be interested
19:11:10 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Provincial (BC), ECC? Point to the Github?
19:12:05 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : thats a great start, we welcome anyone to use that resource. we are going to post the content to Ocean Teacher so the course will be available to be taken there eventually
19:12:12 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : ocean teacher would love for us to send them to them, still free and open
19:12:37 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : does ocean teacher include videos for course content?
19:12:47 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : depending on the course, let me grab a link
19:13:49 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : https://classroom.oceanteacher.org/  general link
19:13:50 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Good point (about DFO) about regional differences in publishing datasets. Could also be lessons to others (Hakai in Pacific—not sure who in Atlantic?).
19:16:48 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : this course is the closest content to what we are doing, if the learning needs to happen sooner https://classroom.oceanteacher.org/enrol/index.php?id=430
19:16:49 From  Jon Pye (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : https://forms.gle/tv52A6H3Vyrp7tAn9
19:19:44 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : an online course with recorded videos would be great!
19:20:08 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : I think it is mostly doc, haven’t noticed videos yet?
19:20:33 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : free beer?
19:21:12 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Is a common request, though. Same with WoRMS—folks want videos. Not done yet :)
19:22:04 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4rVEkWOhkoM&list=PUI9bCuLFiDJ6fb7tCCW4ElQ&index=66
19:22:39 From  Tim Van Der Stap  to  Everyone : Great link, thanks!
19:23:00 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Thanks for making me look—Hadn’t known they had a channel.
19:23:50 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : Something folks might want to browse is seeing past records published: http://ipt.iobis.org/obiscanada/
19:24:15 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : has anyone tried and failed with r installs?
19:24:22 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : would be NL :)
19:24:28 From  claudenozeres  to  Everyone : oh!
19:24:38 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : nice BIO!!
19:24:59 From  Jeff Cullis  to  Everyone : well done BIO!
19:25:14 From  Janet Mossman  to  Everyone : PBS is coming for ya!
19:25:27 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : Naomi, I had to update my R version and install a few dependencies with homebrew on macOS but I have your r package working now
19:25:52 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : which package evan?
19:25:58 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : robis and obistools?
19:26:01 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : Something geospatial
19:26:11 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : Oh, robis I have installed
19:26:20 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : Let me check that dependency that gave me trouble
19:26:38 From  Evan Morien - Hakai Genomics Working Group  to  Everyone : gdal
19:26:50 From  naomi tress (OTN - Facilitator)  to  Everyone : ya gdal is a tricky one
